Contact:
The client initiates the request by sending a READY communication, which should be reciprocated by the server.
At this point, the server will begin sending blocks. The blocks will adhere to the following json format:
{
    "#": block index
    "b": [date, prevhash, hash, nonce, message]
}
Note the spacially compressed structure (single character indices, array for distinct characteristics).
After each block, one of four responses will be sent by the client:
PRESENT/T
PRESENT/NT
ABSENT/V
ABSENT/NV
T and NT denote whether a block is terminal or nonterminal in the client's chain.
V and NV denote whether a block is valid, considering its contents, its hashes, and the block ahead of it.
During this process, the client will store each received server block.

#note: first and last below describe the transmission process, i.e. the first block is the server's terminal block
and the last block is the server's block with index 0.
#note: when the contact is "restarted with reversed roles," only the READY communications are repeated - the same connection is used.

At any signal other than ABSENT/V or on the last block, the server stops transmitting blocks. Five relevant cases exist:
PRESENT/T:
The server has the same chain preceding that block, and has just transmitted all succeeding blocks. The client is now up-to-date.
Transmit END and finish the contact.
PRESENT/NT on first block (i.e. server terminal):
The client has the server's full chain, but also has more blocks after it. Repeat the contact with reversed roles.
PRESENT/NT on non-first block:
The chains are shared up to this point, but branch beyond it. 
These nodes can't exactly reconcile their chains - response is settings dependent, but generally transmit END and finish the contact.
A client set to "give in" may implement the server's version, and a server set likewise might repeat the contact with reversed roles to get the client's version.
ABSENT/V:
Assuming this is the server's last block, the client either has a totally different chain or none at all.
In the former case, the client can't reconcile - see PRESENT/NT on non-first block. In the latter, the client has now received the full chain.
Transmit END and finish the contact.
ABSENT/NV:
According to client, there are errors in the server's chain. The server will verify its chain. If it agrees, it will discard the faulty segment and restart this process.
